Local development guidelines for 2022 (#2571)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/contribute/developing-locally.mdx

The instructions below assume you're running MacOS. For Linux, adjust the steps as needed (e.g. use `apt` instead of `brew`).

In case some steps here have fallen out of date, please tell us about it by [submitting a patch](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/tree/master/contents/docs/contribute/developing-locally.mdx).

## Mac OS prerequisites

1. Install xcode developer tools if you haven't already: `xcode-select --install`.

2. Install Homebrew by following the [instructions here](https://brew.sh/).

<blockquote class="warning-note">
    Note: After installation, make sure to follow the instructions printed in your terminal to add homebrew to your path. Same for <code>nvm</code> and <code>pyenv</code> below.
</blockquote>

3. Install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) and give it **at least 4 GB of RAM** (6GB if you can afford it) and 8 CPU cores.

> 4. Add the following lines to `/etc/hosts`:

Reviewer: I have some context:

I don't think this is needed and will cause trouble for people running multiple projects at once.

Instead I have these following env vars set up for myself

```
⟩ export KAFKA_ENABLED=true KAFKA_HOSTS=localhost:9092 KAFKA_URL=kafka://localhost:9092
```

Frustratingly, there's two url ones because plugin-server and app use different ones.

There's a gotcha here around `migrate_clickhouse` though - since clickhouse accesses network over docker, the host needs to be `kafka` there but `localhost` locally. I think we could improve this by better defaults in the app though.

Author: > I don't think this is needed 

Sorry, but things just don't work for me without this... so I do think it's needed. ClickHouse and Kafka are unable to communicate. Probably the same for other Docker on Mac users (please confirm!). I'll try once more without, but happy to add a "skip if non mac" line there.

Reviewer: I think the reason it didn't work it's because of the `KAFKA_HOSTS` setting being set when `python manage.py migrate_clickhouse` is run.

If we go the route of "sane defaults if DEBUG=1 is set" I think I have a solution for that and can solve this in a follow-up. This would be conditionally setting `KAFKA_HOSTS` to kafka if DEBUG during `migrate_clickhouse` so the kafka engine table is set up correctly :)

3. Install yarn version 1.22 with `npm install -g yarn@1`

4. Install npm packages by running `yarn`

5. Run `yarn start`, which runs in parallel 1) our [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/)-powered dev server, 2) [kea-typegen](https://github.com/keajs/kea-typegen), which generates `logicType.ts` files for each `logic.ts` in the codebase.

6. The first time you run typegen, it may get stuck in a loop. If so, cancel the process (`ctrl+c`), discard all changes in the working directory (`git reset --hard`), and run `yarn start` again. You may need to discard all changes once more when the second round of type generation completes.

### Step 3. NodeJS Plugin Server

1. Assuming NodeJS is installed, run `cd plugin-server && yarn` to install all required packages.

### Step 4. Python Backend

1. Install pyenv by following the [instructions here](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv).

2. Install the latest path release of Python 3.9 with `pyenv install 3.9` (and then selecting the precise version from the list presented). For example:

```
pyenv install 3.9 # gives a list of versions to install
pyenv install 3.9.9
pyenv global 3.9.9
```

> 3. Create the virtual environment in current directory called 'env':

Reviewer: If we're using pyenv then manually creating venvs is unneeded. You can do this instead:

- `pyenv virtualenv 3.9.9 posthog`
- Use some way to automatically activate that when you cd into the dir - I use https://github.com/eknkc/fish-autoenv

```bash
# for bash/zsh/etc
source env/bin/activate

# if you're using the fish shell
source env/bin/activate.fish
```

5. Install requirements with pip

If you're on Apple Silicon, the first time your run `pip install` you must pass it custom openssl headers:

```bash
brew install openssl
CFLAGS="-I /opt/homebrew/opt/openssl/include" LDFLAGS="-L /opt/homebrew/opt/openssl/lib" GRPC_PYTHON_BUILD_SYSTEM_OPENSSL=1 GRPC_PYTHON_BUILD_SYSTEM_ZLIB=1 pip install -r requirements.txt
```

These will be used when installing `grpcio` and `psycopg2`. After doing this once, and assuming nothing changed with these two packages, next time simply run:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

6. SAML support.

If you want to fully test all our features, you'll need to install a few dependencies for SAML to run properly. If you're on macOS, run the command below, otherwise check out the official [xmlsec repo](https://github.com/mehcode/python-xmlsec) for more details.

```
brew install libxml2 libxmlsec1 pkg-config
pip install python3-saml==1.12.0
```

7. Install dev requirements:

```bash
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

### Step 5. Run database migrations

```bash

> export DEBUG=1

Reviewer: If you use https://github.com/eknkc/fish-autoenv like me, you can add these to your .env.fish not to have to type these out every time :)

> The other way around – everything on the host, is not practical due to significant complexities involved in instantiating Kafka or ClickHouse from scratch.

The instructions here assume you're running macOS. For Linux, adjust the steps as needed (e.g. use `apt` or `pacman` in place of `brew`). Windows isn't supported.

In case some steps here have fallen out of date, please tell us about it – feel free to [submit a patch](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/tree/master/contents/docs/contribute/developing-locally.mdx)!

## macOS prerequisites

1. Install Xcode Command Line Tools if you haven't already: `xcode-select --install`.

2. Install the package manager Homebrew by following the [instructions here](https://brew.sh/).

<blockquote class="warning-note">
    After installation, make sure to follow the instructions printed in your terminal to add Homebrew to your <code>$PATH</code>. Otherwise the command line will not know about packages installed with <code>brew</code>.
</blockquote>

3. Install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop) and in its settings give Docker **at least 4 GB of RAM** (or 6 GB if you can afford it) and at least 4 CPU cores.

> 4. Append line `127.0.0.1 kafka clickhouse` to `/etc/hosts`. You can do it in one line with:

Reviewer 2: What's the point of doing this? What about using `127.0.0.1` instead of `kafka` and `clickhouse` in the env variables?

Author: I'd be super happy to not need this... but have no time to try all permutations of variables/hosts now. If anyone can report our setup working well on a M1 mac without these steps, either with changed envs or not, please advise.

Reviewer 2: Let's merge with this and then we can re-evaluate.

Reviewer 3: this is because of an implementation detail on Kafka side. Basically your local client first connects to the broker asking for members of the kafka cluster it gives you `kafka` as the hostname (because of how docker-compose is configured with that as the name of the service & how the services refer to kafka from within the compose setup). So after your client asks the broker for the connection details it tries to connect to `kafka` host from local. Having `kafka` route to local and into the compose stack is the easiest way to get around that.

Reviewer 3: Re: ClickHouse I'm not sure why this is required - I haven't had this issue in the past. I'll look into it.

```bash
sudo echo '127.0.0.1 kafka clickhouse' | sudo tee -a /etc/hosts
```

ClickHouse and Kafka won't be able to talk to each other without these mapped hosts.

5. Clone the [PostHog repository](https://github.com/posthog/posthog). All future commands assume you're inside the `posthog/` folder.

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: Nit: we should add 4 spaces to all code blocks in the bulleted list

<blockquote class="warning-note">
    After installation, make sure to follow the instructions printed in your terminal to add NVM to your <code>$PATH</code>. Otherwise the command line will use your system Node.js version instead.
</blockquote>

2. Install the latest Node.js 14 (the version used by PostHog in production) with `nvm install 14`. You can start using it in the current shell with `nvm use 14`.

3. Install yarn with `npm install -g yarn@1`.

4. Install Node packages by running `yarn`.

5. Run `yarn typegen:write` to generate types for [Kea](https://kea.js.org/) state management logics used all over the frontend.

> The first time you run typegen, it may get stuck in a loop. If so, cancel the process (`Ctrl+C`), discard all changes in the working directory (`git reset --hard`), and run `yarn typegen:write` again. You may need to discard all changes once more when the second round of type generation completes.

### 3. Prepare the plugin server

1. Assuming Node.js is installed, run `yarn --cwd plugin-server` to install all required packages. We'll run this service in a later step.

### 4. Prepare the Django server

> 1. Install Python 3.8+. You can do so with Homebrew: `brew install python3`. Make sure to always use `python3` instead of `python`, as the latter may point to Python 2.x on some systems.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Install Python 3.8+. You can do so with Homebrew: `brew install python@3.8` or `brew install python@3.9`.
```

To install a fixed version.

I'd keep `pyenv` because global dependencies can make for confusing bugs but "all the ways to manage python on your machine" can be kept out of scope :)

Reviewer 5: +1 to `pyenv`, makes things easier (at least for me)

2. Create the virtual environment in current directory called 'env':

```bash
python3 -m venv env
```

3. Activate the virtual environment:

```bash
# For bash/zsh/etc.
source env/bin/activate

# For fish
source env/bin/activate.fish
```

4. Install requirements with pip

> If your workstation is ARM-based (e.g. Apple Silicon), the first time your run `pip install` you must pass it custom OpenSSL headers:

Reviewer 2: Ditto

### 6. Start PostHog

Now start all of PostHog (backend, worker, plugin server, and frontend – simultaneously) with:

```bash
export KAFKA_HOSTS=kafka:9092
./bin/start
```

Open [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000) to see the app.

> **Note:** The first time you run this command you might get an error that says "layout.html is not defined". Make sure you wait until the frontend is finished compiling and try again.

To see some data on the frontend, you should go to the `http://localhost:8000/demo` and play around with it. This will give you a Hogflix test project containing some data data in the app.

## Testing

For a PostHog PR to be merged, all tests must be green, and ideally you should be introducing new ones as well – that's why you must be able to run tests with ease.

For backend, simply use:
```bash
pytest
```
You can narrow the run down to only files under matching paths:
```bash
pytest posthog/test/test_entity_model.py
```
Or to only test cases with matching function names:
```bash
pytest posthog/test/test_entity_model.py -k test_inclusion
```
To see debug logs (such as ClickHouse queries), add argument `--log-cli-level=DEBUG`.

> For Cypress end-to-end test, run `bin/e2e-test-runner`. This will temporarily install required dependencies inside the project, spin up a test instance of PostHog, and show you the Cypress interface, from which you'll manually choose tests to run.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For Cypress end-to-end test, run `bin/e2e-test-runner`. This will temporarily install required dependencies inside the project, spin up a test instance of PostHog, and show you the Cypress interface, from which you'll manually choose tests to run.

Once you're done, terminate the command with cmd + C. Be sure to wait until the command terminates gracefully so temporary dependencies are removed from `package.json` and you don't commit them accidentally.
```

Author: done!

> For frontend tests, all you need is `yarn test`.

Reviewer 5: Do we want to add instructions to run Cypress component tests?

Author: Not really. I think we're [deprecating](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/issues/6589) them.
